---
title: Changes
date: 2016-05-14T10:27:21-06:00
---
I've been thinking this site needed a refresh. What you see is a newly minted and merged version of the site. I'm still using the same theme, but I've upgraded it and made adjustments to the layout of the site. When I started I liked having the banner images, but now that I'm a few years into it, think I prefer to have an image per post (if any image at all). So, for now, no banner images. It may change, but here we are anyway.

I also added an author/writing page.

For those who don't know, I've been writing for years, but have never bothered to publish or present what I've been writing.

I intend to change that.

For now, I've posted my current projects as well as where I am on them and intend to update the page with where I am on each project. It's just going to be a brief percentage change of the bar and a change on the brief "where I'm at". If people want more details, I'll be setting up an email list and asking people to subscribe to it to get more details as well as sample chapters and more in depth thoughts on my experience with the writing process.

Finally, it looks like a reasonable amount of time for me to post here is twice a month. I know that may not seem like a lot, but I'd much rather spend the time I do write working on the writing projects I currently have, and I think that may be more valuable to people int he long run. If you want to see more or think there is something you would like to see more of, drop me a line (contact info is on the sidebar).

So...cha-cha-changes.
